xiii - ධර්මසිරි ගමගේ නිර්මාණ සංදීපනී

Dharmasiri Gamage In My Perspective
Neil Christopher

It is said in the Sidat Sangara that it has been written to 
educate those who are not learned. Though it is so said, post 
independent young generation of Sri Lanka experienced that 
classical academics tended to distance them form the core cur- 
rent. It was only Munidasa Kumaratunga who open -heartedly 
called upon the young blood to make Sinhala Literature opu- 
lent. I am of certainity in the utmost sense of the word say that 
Dharmasiri Gamage never dreams to be compared with 
Kumaratunga. But the genuine effort he made to stimulate the 
younger generation into creative writing naturally makes every 
sensitive young writer reminiscent of Kumaratunga.

Dharmasiri Gamage never displayed himself as an 
authority in any field though he was practically involved in the 
fields of short story writing,versification, composition of songs, 
screen-play writing, and above all feature writing as a journalist. 
I have no intention of judging him according to the 
skills he displayed in those fields. To speak very frankly, I do not rate him 
as a great artist or writer. He is a great man of rare type who with 
no any hypocrisy is enraptured when a new comer into the field 
of arts and literature shows a talent of being a good artist or a 
writer in future. True human love streams out of his heart.

I well remember how I met this beloved man, While I was 
studying in the first year at the university of Sri Jayawardenapura 
| wrote a short story about ragging. | sent it to "Youn Janatha" 
edited by Dharmasiri Gamage. It appeared in the paper with edi- 
torial comments. After that | went to meet Mr. Gamage. He was 
pleased to see me as a budding short story writer. He gave me a 
parcel containing more than four hundred letters commending 
my short story and presented another set of writings and said, 
"Putha, here are some poems written by your contemporaries. 
Select the best to be published in the next issue of "Youn Janatha".
